class CatalogModel{

//static is used so that we can call it from other parts of classes and codes also
  static final items = [
    Item(
      id:1,
      name:"Cleanliness",
      desc:"Keeping the body clean has positive effects on a person's social life and their physical and mental health.\n"
          " Personal hygiene is simply looking after the body and keeping it clean and healthy. "
          "\nDeveloping and maintaining a personal hygiene routine is key to having a healthy body and mind."
          "it keeps th body and skin in good health as is the first step towards better lifestyle",
      precautions:"1.Reduce the usage of harmful chemicals on your body"
          "  \n2.Reduce the amount of dust and dirt on your body "
          " \n3. Maintain a healthy life style and take bath regularly"
          " \n4. wipe off the excessive sweat from body "
          " \n5. throw the waste products properly."
          " \n6. Use sanitizer to clan the surrounding",
      Exercise:"NO EXERCISES TO KEP CLEANLINESS IT'S ALL IN THE HABIT SO MAKE YOUR HABITS HEALTHY AND CLEAN ",
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/clean.png",
      image1:"assets/images/cleanliness.jpg",),

    Item(
      id:2,
      name:"Headache",
      desc:" Headache is one of the most common pain conditions in the world.\n"
          " Up to 75% of adults worldwide have had a headache in the past year\n"
          "Headaches are a major cause of absenteeism from work and school. \n"
          "They also take a toll on social and family life. For some people,"
          " continually battling headaches can lead to feeling anxious and depressed",
      precautions:"Watch what you eat and drink as the wrong food will lead to frequent headaches"
          " \nAnd don't skip your meals. "
          " \nBe careful with the physical work as it may lead to pump back of veins of your head or fore head"
          " \nAnd Finally take less stress and be happy"
      ,
      Exercise:"Sit up tall with your buttock against the back of the seat and back "
          "straight against the back of the chair. Bring your chin towards the"
          " front of your throat without tilting the head. A funny analogy I like to"
          " make is “give yourself a double chin without tilting the skull down”. "
          "Hold this position for 5 seconds and then relax. Repeat this 10 times each hour.",
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/headache.png",
      image1:"assets/images/chintucks.jpg",
    ),

    Item(
      id:3,
      name:"Eye Pain",
      desc:"Iritis or uveitis: An inflammation inside your eye from trauma, "
          "infections, or problems with your immune system. Symptoms include pain, red eye,",
      precautions:"The best precaution against eye pain is to"
          " protect it from foreign objects as it may lead to infection and conjunctivitis"
          "\n Wash your eyes on regular time of intervals"
          "\n Protect your eyes from any sort of injury and keep your migraine in check as it may lead to eyestrain"
          "\n use eye drops and blu ray eyeglasses  when working on screens and computers or mobile phone",
      Exercise:"Common exercises you can perform to treat Eye pain are"
          "\n By deliberately and repeatedly looking up and down , leftward then right,then closing them"
          "\n you can also put pressure on yur eyes from your fingers to keep "
          "them relax and reduce the strain which is the major cause for eye problems"
          "\n you can also take ice face spa"
          "\n you can also ue eye drops or as a home remedy can also put honey "
          "in your eyes but we will suggests not to put honey in eyes as it may be painful",
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/eyeball.png",
      image1:"assets/images/EYE.jpg",
    ),
    Item(
      id:4,
      name:"Muscle Pain and Soreness",
      desc:" Muscle pain, or myalgia, is a sign of an injury, infection, "
          "disease or other health problem. You may feel a deep, steady ache or random sharp pains. "
          "Some people have muscle pain all over"
          "People of all age and gender can have muscle pain or soreness"
          "it usually happens when you try a new activity or exercise ot any "
          "strenuous work on the body out of regular routine"
          "muscle can also be the symptom of fever"
          "majority of the people go through this scenario and in medical terms it is usually called as DOMS ",
      precautions:"You can take the following precautions :"
          "\n1. Don't do too much workout or don't lift heavy weights"
          "\n2. Protect your body from infection that is to keep your immune system healthy"
          "\n3. Eat fibre and protein rich fruits"
          "\n4. Stay away from radiation therapy",
      Exercise:"Common exercises you can perform to treat Muscle pain and soreness are"
          "\n1. You can perform Taad asana"
          "\n2.you can perform Bhujanga asana"
          "\n3.You can do minor stretching "
          "\n4.You can also perform Russian Twists"
          "\n5.And you can also take bath from warm water for instant relief",
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/muscle.png",
      image1:"assets/images/YOGA.jpg",
    ),
    Item(
      id:5,
      name:"Chest Pain",
      desc:"Discomfort in the chest including a dull ache,"
          " a crushing or burning feeling, a sharp stabbing pain and pain that "
          "radiates to the neck or shoulder these all are the normal symptoms of chest pain "
          "\n Chest pain is not something to ignore."
          "\n in majority of the cases chest pain is related to heart or cardio vascular region"
          "\n But it can also b caused by problem in lungs or esophagus muscles,ribs,and even nerves"
          "Some conditions can also b life threatening"
          ,
      precautions:"You can take the following precautions in order to cope up with heart conditions"
          "\n1. Whenever you have a chest pain don't lie straight lie in side wards position"
          "\n2. Book your appointment with cardiologist"
          "\n3. you can take painkiller or less power to ease pain"
          "\n4. It is advised to keep the are in which pain is occurring warm",
      Exercise:" You can perform the following exercises along with medications for better recovery "
          "\nIn order to kep your heart in good health you must include some cardio exercises like running and jogging"
          "\n keep your mind at ease by doing Pranayaam at the morning"
          "\n You can also include yoga assans like"
          "\n1. Tadasana"
          "\n2. Utkatasan "
          "\n3. Vrikshasana"
          "\n4. Paschimottrasana"
          "\n5.Bhujangasana"
          "Wee will recommend you not to take any heavy doses of medication "
      ,
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/chest_p.png",
      image1:"assets/images/PAS.jpg",),

    Item(
      id:6,
      name:"Back Pain ",
      desc:" Back pain is the most common form of issue in human body ,Physical discomfort"
          " occurring anywhere on the spine or back, ranging from mild to disabling.They can range from mild to severe aches"
          "They can range from muscle aching to shooting to joints or bone issue on long terms"
          "\n The back pain can hinder your lower back body movement and can be very severe in many conditions "
          "\n In some conditions it may lead to spinal surgeries"
           ,
      precautions:"It is the common fact that back pin is more common is old age people."
          "So is advised to take calcium supplements for better health of bones"
          "as after the age of 30 years bone density reduced and may cause back pain or joint issues\n"
          "Lack of physical work or exercise or workout can lead to back pain as it may lead to stiff spinal chord "
      "\n It is also proven fact that smoking can lead to back pain so it is advised to quit smoking"
          "\n for instant  relief you can apply pain ointment and gel in the affected area or portion",
      Exercise:" For faster recovery in the condition of backpain you can perform the following exercises"
          "/n the baic exercises of yoga will reduce the backpain but on the other hand lifting heavy loads can advance the"
          "severeness of backpain and issues"
          "\nSome Yoga asanas which you can try to reduce backpain are"
          "\n1. Cat-cow pose"
          "\n2. Downward facing dog"
          "\n3.Normal stretching"
          "\n4.Suryanamaskaar"
          "you can also include light running and squat if you want in your workout"
          " and you can alos include the portion of calisthenic for mobility as advised by the creator",
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/back-pain.png",
      image1:"assets/images/SURYA.jpg",),

    Item(
      id:7,
      name:"Joint pain",
      desc:" It happens over time when the cartilage,the protective cushion in between the bones, wears away. "
          "The joints become painful and stiff. It develops slowly and usually occurs during middle age\n"
          "Joint discomfort is common and usually felt in hands,feets,hips,knes, spines and lumbar bone or elbows."
          "\n Pain can be contant or it may come and go.Sometimes joint can feel tiffy or blocked, achy or sore"
          "\n It can limit person's ability for daily tasks "
          "it is common for people with joint injuries",
      precautions:"Here’s how to keep your joints healthy as you age Stay at a healthy weight. "
          "Extra pounds put pressure on weight-bearing joints like hips and knees. "
          "Each pound you gain adds nearly four pounds of stress on your knees and puts six times the pressure on your hips."
          "Control your blood sugar. High blood sugar can stiffen the tissue that "
          "supports your joints and make them more sensitive to stress."
          "Stretch. Gentle stretching can improve your range of motion and keep your joints limber. Try to work in simple stretches into every day."
          "Avoid injury. An injured joint is more likely to develop arthritis than"
          " one that was never injured. Wear protective gear when playing sports and always lift with your knees and hips, not your back.",
      Exercise:" Move the muscles on regular time for better joint health"
          "Exercise. Just 30 minutes of exercise five times a week helps "
          "joints stay limber and strengthens the muscles that support your knees and hips. "
          "Focus on low-impact exercises like walking, cycling or swimming."
          "You can perform yoga poses like bridge pose,forward pose,plank,bound angle pose"
          "\n you can alo include zumba or wide range eof aerobic exercises"
          "well you can also do hula-hoops",
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/pain-in-joints.png",
      image1:"assets/images/RUN.jpg",),
    Item(
      id:8,
      name:"Stomach ache",
      desc:"Pain from inside the abdomen or the outer muscle wall,"
          " ranging from mild and temporary to severe and requiring emergency care."
          "Abdominal pain can have causes that aren't due to underlying disease. Examples include constipation, wind, overeating, stress or muscle strain."
          "We often think that abdominal pain a related to stomach but it can also be related to guts and other organ"
          "\n The pain can be either severe,dull or sharp,burning or achy"
          "the mot common causes are related to digestion or mensuration cycles",
      precautions:"Stomach pain has a wide variety of causes and treatments."
          " Some conditions, such as gallstones or appendicitis, may require surgery. "
          "Others, such as ulcers or infections, may be eased with medicine."
          " And sometimes you may just have to get through a bout of stomach flu or a kidney stone until it passes."
          "you can begin by treating yourself with "
          "\n Bowel rest. Stop eating, or only eat easy-to-digest foods like crackers or bananas"
          "\n Hydration. Drink plenty of water or a hydration formula "
          "\n therapy. Try a warm water bottle or a soak in the bath.",
      Exercise:" 1.Parsva Sukhasana "
          "\nThis is a great beginner move for people looking to stretch their obliques, belly muscles, lower and upper back, and shoulders."
          "The gentle stretch may help alleviate bloating and gas and support general digestion."
          "\n Ardha Matsyendrasana)"
          "The twisting motion of this move is thought to promote bowel regularity by aiding the small and large intestine in peristalsis. This is the movement that propels food and waste through the GI tract."
          "This yoga move may also help alleviate bloating"
          "\nApanasana Knees to Chest is a gentle movement that can be relaxing and relieve lower back strain.",
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/stomach.png",
      image1:"assets/images/APAAN.jpg",
    ),
    Item(
      id:9,
      name:"Allergies",
      desc:"A condition in which the immune system reacts abnormally to a foreign "
          "substance normally harmless substance such as pollen, molds, animal "
          "dander, latex, certain foods and insect stings."
          "Allergies are your body’s reaction to a normally harmless substance "
          "such as pollen, molds, animal dander, latex, certain foods and insect"
          " stings. Allergy symptoms range from mild – rash or hives, itchiness,"
          " runny nose, watery/red eyes – to life-threatening."
          " Treatments include antihistamines, decongestants, nasal steroids, "
          "asthma medicines and immunotherapy.",
      precautions:"Although avoiding the allergen is an important treatment "
          "approach, it usually doesn’t completely end the allergic reaction."
          "Medications such as antihistamines (e.g., Allegra), decongestants (eg, Sudafed),"
          "or a combination of over-the-counter and prescription medications, "
          "are used to treat your allergy symptoms.",
      Exercise:" Move the muscles on regular time"
          "Immunotherapy (“allergy shot therapy”) or allergy oral immunotherapy"
          " is recommended if your symptoms aren’t adequately controlled with"
          " a combination of avoidance measures and regular medication use."
          "Let me be straightforward allergies can't be cured but they can be reducee"
          "there are not much exercises but you can perform the ones below"
          "\n stretching of upper abdomen"
          "\n in yoga you can perform anulom vilom ",
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/allergies.png",
      image1:"assets/images/AV.jpg",),

    Item(
      id:10,
      name:"Cough and cold",
      desc:"A viral infection of your nose and throat (upper respiratory tract)."
          " It's usually harmless, although it might not feel that way."
          " Many types of viruses can cause a common cold."
          "The common cold is a viral infection of your nose and throat (upper respiratory tract). It's usually harmless, although it might not feel that way. Many types of viruses can cause a common cold."
          "Healthy adults can expect to have two or three colds each year. "
          "Infants and young children may have even more frequent colds."
          "Most people recover from a common cold in a week or 10 days. "
          "Symptoms might last longer in people who smoke. Generally,"
          " you don't need medical attention for a common cold. ",
      precautions:"Precautions to take"
          "\n These factors can increase your chances of getting a cold:"
          "\nAge. Infants and young children are at greatest risk of colds, especially if they spend time in child care settings."
          "\nWeakened immune system. Having a chronic illness or otherwise weakened immune system increases your risk."
          "\nTime of year. Both children and adults are more likely to get colds in fall and winter, but you can get a cold anytime."
          "\nSmoking. You're more likely to catch a cold and to have more-severe colds if you smoke or are around secondhand smoke.",
      Exercise:" Exercises for faster recovery"
          "\n Neck stretch - One of the simplest yet beneficial stretches for the body, "
          "a simple neck stretch can relieve symptoms of a bad cold and reduce tension"
          " around the neck and the chest, where there might be phlegm stored up. "
          "It can also relieve symptoms associated with a sinusitis infection, or "
          "sleeping in the same position for long."
          "\n Standing forward bend - Uttanasana (or Standing forward bend) is an "
          "inversion stretch which rejigs and invigorates your entire body, "
          "improves blood flow, protects sinuses and relieves cough and congestion symptoms in an easy manner.",
      color:"#33505a",
      image:"assets/images/cough and cold.png",
      image1:"assets/images/UTA.jpg",),

  ];
}



class Item {

  final int id;
  final String name;
  final String desc;
  final String precautions;
  final String Exercise;
  final String color;
  final String image;
  final String image1;

  Item( {required this.image1, required this.Exercise, required this.precautions, required this.id,required this.name,required this.desc,required this.color,required this.image});
}
